---
layout: post
title: Week 2
---


Week 2: This week, I drafted and refined my overall research project and came up with a short written description to articulate my project. I also connected with Faraz Faruqi, an external collaborator at MIT's HCI Engineering group, to explore/evaluate different image-to-text AI models. Here's the project description I came up with:
The goal for the summer is to develop a system that can take as input an STL file along with a brief description/name of the model (e.g. "round flanged linear ball bearing") and output textual descriptions of the shapes of the overall model, along with its sub-components. Additionally, the system will be able to answer open-ended questions from the user about the shape and size of the different parts in the model. The system will not be able to modify any of the models, nor have a working memory of previous models loaded to the system by the user to adopt the language of its descriptions. The system will focus on providing geometric descriptions of shapes rather than making simile or functional comparisons (e.g. "a narrow, cylindrical rod with wider cylinders on either end." rather than "a dumbell-like component" or "a rod with a flange on either end".) Simile/functional descriptions help abstract away some of the geometric descriptions and help with visualization, but may be ambiguous due to the potential for high variation in how blind people might visualize a certain simile/functional component. A future project could investigate using simile/functional component-based descriptions, and if a user is confused, they may query for a geometric description.
The technologies necessary to build this system is a method of reading and segmenting STL file models (likely from Faraz's work) and AI-powered alt-text generator that can describe each of these sub-components individually, and the overall shape of the model (OpenAI's GPT 3.5 would be helpful for this). GPT 3.5 can also be used to create a conversational interface for users to ask additional questions about specific segments determined by the segmentation algorithm.
The system will be tested on models pulled from two sources: a hand-selected set of STL's from Thingiverse, and STL's generated from online openSCAD libraries (e.g. openSCAD libraries to create gears).
