---
layout: post
title: Week 1
---

After some more work on the parser using parglare, I realized that building a parser would actually be a lot more complicated than I initially thought it would be. Even reducing the robustness of the parser still made it tricky to gather information. I started digging into other parametric CAD tools like JSCAD and SolidPython to see if those might already have some useful features to extract things like object size, etc. However, with what time remained in the REU (and not wanting to go down anymore rabit holes), we decided to pivot and develop more qualitative questions around what kinds of descriptions would be helpful in the first place. We were primarily leveraging my past experience from working with sighted volunteers (the argument being that this is a very, very low-incidence population of people who are blind 3D modelers, and if there are additional tyeps of descriptions that wasn't included based on my experience, it would be a matter of making tweeks to the model, rather than re-inventing the whole thing).
SO I developed a formative study protocol to start formalizing the types of information a "good" description of a 3D model should have beyond my own informal past experience. The study involved asking sighted participants to describe 3D models to me, and for me to re-create them using clay. I would analyze these conversations in post to identify patterns. Depending on the findings, this in and of itself might be a great contribution to a place like ASSETS next year if I ran the study on other blind participants and other sighted volunteers.
I was able to run a pilot study on one volunteer.

